Introduction
v1.0.0

Courier transforms any M-series Mac into a production-ready AI API platform, providing enterprise-grade features that make self-hosting viable and cost-effective. Stop renting cloud APIs and start owning your AI infrastructure.

Installation
Courier runs entirely on your own M-series Mac. It comes in two forms that run the same local engine — pick whichever fits how you work:

The Mac app (recommended) — the full desktop experience: Chat, Code, Studio, the model workbench, and the MCP Store, all in one place. The easiest way to get everything.
The TUI — a lightweight terminal interface that runs the Courier platform (APIs, models, ngrok) headless. Great for servers and power users.
You download both the same way: from the Overview or Billing page, choose the version you want and follow the prompts.

Editions
Personal — free, no license. Everything runs locally on your Mac.
Commercial — $300/mo, activated with a one-time setup key (adds the unlocked seat-share and paid support).
Commercial customers activate with a setup key. Need one? Reach out: jackson@thinkrecursion.ai

Option A — The Mac app (recommended)
One download gives you the whole product — Chat, Code, Studio, the model workbench, and more — with everything running on-device.

Step 1: Download
From the Overview or Billing page, select Courier for Mac and download the app.

Step 2: Install
Open the download, move Courier into your Applications folder, and launch it.

Step 3: Launch & activate
Open Courier. Personal runs immediately — everything is local. Commercial customers activate with their setup key. Sign in with your Courier account to connect Courier Cloud (optional).

Step 4: Add a model and go
Courier opens to your dashboard. Add a model from the Almanac, then start a Chat or open Code — it all runs locally on your Mac.

Option B — The TUI
Prefer the terminal, or running Courier headless on a server? The TUI runs the full Courier platform — APIs, models, ngrok — from the command line. This is the original Courier install flow, and it's still fully supported.

Step 1: Install Courier
Run this single command in your terminal to download and launch the Courier installer. This will most likely take 1-2 minutes to finish.

curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rosstoss/courier-dist/refs/heads/main/install.sh | bash
Step 2: Initialize CourierDB
Once the Terminal User Interface (TUI) opens, click INITIALIZE COURIERDB to set up your local database. CourierDB is fully local — no external services required.

Step 3: Enter Setup Key
Paste your one-time setup key in the field provided. This activates your Courier license.

Step 4: Optional: ngrok Configuration
If you want to expose your APIs publicly, you can configure ngrok during setup.

Domain format: Enter your domain as myapp.ngrok.app, not https://myapp.ngrok.app. The installer expects the bare domain without the protocol prefix.

Step 5: Finalize Installation
Click FINALIZE INSTALLATION and Courier will set up everything automatically. There may be a 10-15 second wait as Courier finishes setup tasks in the background.

Step 6: Admin Screen
Once installation completes, you'll land on the admin screen. Here's what you can do:

START / STOP: Start your API platform. Stop anytime.
Status Display: Shows COURIER IS STOPPED / STARTED and ngrok status (NGROK READY or NGROK RUNNING AT your domain).
QUIT UI: Exit the TUI. Running processes continue in the background.
Self-Hosted Dashboard: Opens your local dashboard to test and add models immediately.
Environment Configuration: Access COURIER ENV and COURIERDB ENV screens to edit environment variables, set up ngrok, or change your domain. NOTE: You may need to close and reopen the TUI if you change any environment variables.
Step 7: Re-opening the TUI
You can reopen the Courier TUI via the Terminal at any time by running:

courier
This reopens the admin TUI where you can start/stop your platform, check status, and manage configuration.